# Git style guide

## Commit messages

Writing good commit messages is important. Not just for yourself, but for other
developers on your project. This includes:

* new (or recently absent) developers who want to get up to speed on progress
* interested external parties who want to follow progress of the project
* people in the public (remember, we code in the open) who want to see our work,
  or learn from our practices
* any future developers (including yourself) who want to see why a change was
  made

### Recommended blog posts on this topic

* [5 useful tips for a better commit message](http://robots.thoughtbot.com/5-useful-tips-for-a-better-commit-message)
* [Every line of code is always documented](http://mislav.uniqpath.com/2014/02/hidden-documentation/)

### Content

A good commit message briefly summarises the "what" for scanning purposes, but
also includes the "why". If the "what" in the message isn't enough, the diff is
there as a fallback. This isn't true for the "why" of a change - this can be
much harder or impossible to reconstruct, but is often of great significance.

#### Example

``Set cache headers``

prefer:

```
Set cache headers

IE 6 was doing foo, so we need to do X.
See http://example.com/why-is-this-broken for more details.
```


### Structure

Commit messages should contain a:

* short summary, where you:
  * use no more than 50 characters
  * start with a capital letter
  * write in the present tense
  * do not add a full stop
* longer explanation, if needed, and:
  * leave a blank line before
  * hard-wrap lines at 72 characters


#### Example

Taken from [Tim Pope’s guidelines](http://tbaggery.com/2008/04/19/a-note-about-git-commit-messages.html).

> Capitalized, short (50 chars or less) summary

> More detailed explanatory text, if necessary.  Wrap it to about 72
characters or so.  In some contexts, the first line is treated as the
subject of an email and the rest of the text as the body.  The blank
line separating the summary from the body is critical (unless you omit
the body entirely); tools like rebase can get confused if you run the
two together.

> Write your commit message in the present tense: "Fix bug" and not "Fixed
bug."  This convention matches up with commit messages generated by
commands like git merge and git revert.

> Further paragraphs come after blank lines.

> - Bullet points are okay, too
> - Typically a hyphen or asterisk is used for the bullet, preceded by a
  single space, with blank lines in between, but conventions vary here
> - Use a hanging indent

### Branching/merging conventions

You may often choose to work on a particular feature on a "feature branch"
rather than directly on `master`. Indeed, given how cheap branches are in Git,
this is [positively encouraged](http://git-scm.com/book/en/Git-Branching-Basic-Branching-and-Merging).

You are encouraged to make liberal use of Git's [history rewriting
features](http://git-scm.com/book/en/Git-Tools-Rewriting-History) while working
locally, in order to arrange your commits into appropriate logical chunks that
will make sense to your fellow developers. In particular, you may find
`git rebase --interactive` very useful. However, you should not rewrite commits
that have been pushed unless you:

  * are **very sure** that no-one else will be affected by you rewriting the
    branch history
  * have an Extremely Good Reason. For example: someone has committed
    sensitive information (personally identifiable data, passwords and suchlike)
    and it needs purging from history

When merging from a feature branch to master (or any other mainline development
branch), in particular one that has previously been shared with colleagues, you
should use `git merge`'s `--no-ff` option to preserve evidence of your feature
branch in the repository history. This advice may be freely ignored for smaller
local feature branches for which a fast-forward merge will look like any other
routine development work on `master`.

## Never call `git push -f` without additional arguments

Force pushing in git is a subject that attracts all kinds of religious
battles. This advice is not about the merits of force pushing.

This is about how to use `git push -f` if and when you do use it.

Let's say you're working on a branch, 'foobar', and you decide to force push
to the remote. So you do this:

    $ git push -f

If anyone has committed anything to master[^1] since you last pulled -- and if
you've been working on the branch for any length of time this is pretty likely
-- you will blow their changes away, because without arguments git will force
push *all* remote-tracking branches.

So, if you ever need to force push the 'foobar' branch, please instead do

    $ git push -f origin foobar

You can also change git's default behaviour of pushing all tracked branches by
doing `git config --global push.default upstream`, but you should probably get
into the habit of typing out your intentions in full when doing a destructive
operation like force pushing, otherwise disaster will strike when you use
someone else's differently-configured git, or miss a step when configuring a
new machine.

[^1]: (or any other remote-tracking branch you have in your local copy)
